Students’ Perceptions of Online Cultural Exchanges

Abstract
Various online communicative methods, such as blogs, emails, Facebook, twitter, text chat, are used for the purpose of immediate communication by people separated by time and space. To create a comparable authentic communicative environment for EFL students, the Online Cultural Exchange Program (OCEP) is designed to support communication in written form between students in different countries. The participants in this study of OCEP were from Taiwan, Japan or Indonesia. They were required to write up to 200 words, introducing themselves, describing their local culture or events, and finally summarizing and expressing their viewpoints after watching TED talks. This study attempts to investigate what the participants from Taiwan thought of the program and communicating and exchanging ideas with foreign students online. The results show that all the participants held positive and favorable attitudes toward OCEP. More than 75% of the participants said that online communication gave them an opportunity to think at greater length about their own culture or local issues. During the writing process, they had to look up new words or things they were not familiar with on the Internet or read what the other participants had written, which enhanced indirectly their reading ability and increased their vocabulary. They learned to synthesize the information they had obtained, reorganize it in a logical order, and then write it down in their own words. In addition, reading the other participants’ writing made them aware of cultural differences and similarities. Based on the survey results, some pedagogical implications regarding how to encourage more interaction online are proposed.

Key words: cultural awareness, linguistic context, online cultural exchange program, online communication, situation context

Introduction

Globalization and internationalization in the context of economic and academic activity is a trend that is part of the reality of the 21st century (Altbach & Knight, 2007). To cope with the global academic environment, communicating with foreigners online has become increasingly frequent. With the widespread of globalization and information technology, the goals of English education in non-English speaking countries have recently undergone drastic changes, some such changes being the introduction of computer-aided instruction, simultaneous long-distance learning, and on-line or off-line e-learning. As well as learning knowledge, online networking, chatting, dating, and gaming, among other activities, have also set new trends in foreign language learning (Yee, 2006). Information technology offers an expansion of the amount, the variety, and the accessibility of input to learners and to the contexts of learning and teaching. Online resources provide students with an opportunity to be instructed individually and to become autonomous learners. The wealth of information is particularly suited for learners in this electronic age as it offers infinite possibilities for stimulating pertinent discussion, nurturing students’ intellectual curiosity, arousing their cultural awareness, and above all enhancing their English skills simultaneously. 

To this end, the Online Cultural Exchange Program was developed and employed to address students’ need to interact internationally with peers of different cultural backgrounds. The main objective of this program is to enable students to understand intercultural or cross-cultural differences and similarities, raise awareness of cultural diversity, communicate with people who do not have the same first language, and improve their writing skills. 

Participants of this online cultural exchange program were from three different countries, Japan, Indonesia and Taiwan. They were not native speakers of English; so they had to use English as a lingua franca for interaction (House, 2012; Jenkins, 2006), that is, a common means of communication. They were strongly recommended to send one initial post to the forum and several replies to others’ postings. They were expected to collaborate with other students in exchanging information and in discussing the issues raised by the designated topics. To increase intercultural communication and interaction, every participant was assigned a buddy from a different country.

Although participants from Taiwan had been studying English for more than twelve years at the time this study was conducted, this was their first real-time experience of interacting with foreigners online. Therefore, this study was undertaken to investigate what they thought of the online cultural exchange forum in terms of language acquisition and intercultural competence. Their perceptions or suggestions can serve as signposts for future improvement.

Theoretical Framework

The ultimate goal of school education is to enhance student learning outcomes (Fullan, 2007). Taking students’ motivation, information technology and their communicative competence as important waystations on the road to achieving this goal, this study tried to incorporate these factors into task-based activities, hoping that Taiwanese participants could use English as a lingua franca to get their meaning across instead of focusing on form. Through interacting with foreigners, it was hoped they would achieve intercultural communicative competence and citizenship. After composing their messages, reading their peers’ postings and reflecting critically, it was expected that they would be more aware of cultural differences and similarities, respect others’ culture values, and avoid stereotyping and misunderstanding (Chao, 2014). 

Motivation plays an important role in knowledge and language acquisition (Ryan & Deci, 2000) When students are motivated internally, they will take the initiative to learn the target language, outperforming those who are under-motivated ( Brown, 1994) . Nowadays, students enjoy surfing the internet. They are no longer forced to learn only from their teachers in the classroom; they can learn anywhere and anytime as long as they can access the Internet. Internet resources expand the pool of input to language learners and enlarge the language learning context (Pennington, 1996). They increase the diversity and variety of types of input available, offering new sources of information and partners for interaction such as by e-mail (Warschauer, 1995), Internet browsing and chat activities (Lam, 2000; Warschauer, 1995), or on-line writing conferences (Sullivan & Pratt, 1996). Computerizing their teaching can make teachers more effective communicators and more competitive teachers. The Internet has become an invaluable aid in many areas of our lives and learning language through technology has become a fact of life (Chapelle, 2001). Therefore, for example, Reinders and Wattana (2014) promoted the integration of online games or chat into instructional design to foster learners' willingness to interact and communicate with one another.

Notable for its convenient accessibility, online learning has been developed and employed to improve learning and teaching for some time. It poses a challenge for both teachers and students (Ally, 2004), but it has several advantages. It is time and place independent (Harasim, 1990). Learners can access it anytime, anywhere, work at their own pace (Harasim, 1990), remain concealed (Simonson, Smaldino, Albright, & Zvacek, 2000), and most importantly, store and retrieve information more effectively (Richardson & Swan, 2003). The only disadvantage is the lack of face-to-face interactions (Richardson & Swan, 2003).  

Online interaction, such as through Facebook, Twitter, forums, online dating and networking, serves two major functions: language acquisition and intercultural communication. From the perspective of communication theory, cultures are performative, that is, they exist as they take shape in the words, symbols, rituals and interactions of people. (Beamer, 2001). Communication, the process of sharing meaning through verbal and nonverbal behavior, is influenced by cultural values, attitudes, and behavior. To avoid miscommunication, it is critical to understand intercultural or cross-cultural issues, the informal and often hidden patterns of human interactions, expressions, and viewpoints that people in one culture share. While interacting with others online, users do not aim to master a language for all purposes and functions. They master the codes that are sufficient for the functions they want the language to perform. It is obvious English is used as a lingua franca. Nonetheless, it is also clear that users are participating in the performative sharing of intercultural understanding. 

According to Larsen-Freeman (2000), task-based language teaching means providing a natural context for relatively realistic language use, and focusing the learner’s attention on a real-world task, problem, activity, or topic, and not on a particular language point (Stern, 1992). Task-based instruction includes pre-task, during task and post-task stages (Ellis, 2003). In this study, the during task activities employed include opinion exchange, personal experience sharing, narrative, and comprehension-based reasoning (Rebecca, 2006). Much research has shown that target language acquisition has a close relationship with classroom participation and interaction (Ely, 1986; Ellis, 1988; Pica, 1994). Providing practice in the classroom promotes learning outcomes (Cheng, 2004; Herbert & Burt, 2003). In addition, guidance in the different types of writing, such as responses to a reading, summarizing, and message posting, needs to be provided and these forms practiced (Sokolik, 2003). Therefore, participants were encouraged to complete their ‘initial post’ during class hours, during which process they were focusing on the exchange of meaningful messages for communicative purposes (Long, 1987; Pica, 198). After class, they could login to the program, revise their writing or reply to other’s messages freely. 

Method
Participants
Students participating in this online cultural exchange program were from Japan, Indonesia and Taiwan. Japanese participants were 34 sophomores, majoring in Agriculture at the University of Miyazaki. The 50 Indonesian participants were freshmen from the University of Brawijaya, majoring in Agricultural Economics. Though there were three groups of participants, the survey was only administered to the Taiwanese students, 56 senior students majoring in Business Management at National United University. On average, their English proficiency was at CEF B1 level, with better reading than writing. 

To encourage more mutual interaction and communication, a buddy pair policy was employed. Each participant was assigned a student of different nationality as his/her buddy, paired up by the program manager, Professor Araki Tamao from the University of Miyazaki, Japan.  

Procedure
This program, lasting for eight weeks, is divided into five stages, each of which has a definite theme and set of targeted skills. Each stage is opened for initial posting and discussion in sequence according to the schedule. After completing the five stages, the forum is still open for three more weeks, allowing students to wrap up their contributions. 

Participants are recommended to develop a specific topic relevant to each theme and write messages or thoughts on the forums at http://ocep.vss.miyazaki-u.ac.jp/esp/. Themes for discussion in each stage are as follows. 
Stage l: introduction of themselves and their places (including universities) on the forums 
Stage 2: description of flora and fauna on their universities’ campuses  or cultural events or customs common in the university’s region 
Stage 3: watching the TED Talk, “How to green the world’s deserts and reverse climate change” given by Alan Savory, and then discussing the video material relating it to an environmental issue or any other specific idea
Stage 4: watching the TED Talk, “Why business can be good at solving social problems” given by Michael Porter, and then discussing this issue and writing down an opinion
Stage 5: picking up one aspect of a local environmental, agricultural, or agro-economic issue and sharing it with the participants from other countries 

While Taiwanese participants were undertaking their tasks, the teacher usually walked around the class to see if they needed any help. If they failed to complete the task in class, they were required to finish the assignment within a designated time after class. A total of five initial postings accounted for 30% of their final grade and replies earned extra credits. A survey concerning their attitudes to and perceptions of the online cultural exchange was conducted at the end of the program. 

Results and Discussion

Though participants of the online cultural exchange program include Japanese, Indonesian, and Taiwanese, the survey results detailed in this section were gathered from Taiwanese students.

Around 80% of the participants said they felt excited to exchange ideas with foreign students and were interested in the topics chosen for discussion in each stage. Since they had never experienced communicating with foreigners in written form, they thought it was a good opportunity to practice writing and to communicate in real-time with foreigners. More than 78% felt participating in the program helped improve their English writing ability. They thought at greater length of the issues that they wanted to discuss or share so as to express them more clearly and appropriately. As a result, during the whole program, they took the lead in posting messages, leading discussions, interacting with their buddy and answering others’ questions. Knowing that both Japanese and Indonesian students would read their postings, they spent more time looking for information and composing their messages than usual. They tried their best to write clearly and appropriately, afraid that foreign students might misunderstand what they had posted on topics such as Chinese culture and customs, their viewpoints, and their ideas. More than 75% said because they wanted to better their writing and express themselves more clearly, they often accessed the forum after class multiple times to revise their initial postings, read others’ postings, or respond to their peers’ questions. The average access rate of each student, reaching 5.6 times per student, indirectly supports the above statements.

More than 70% said that they preferred to read the postings written by both Japanese and Indonesian students. By reading the messages posted by foreign students, they learned more about foreign culture, customs, food, scenic spots, trends, etc. Most important of all, they learned to look at things from different perspectives. They realized that there was no right-or-wrong, good-or-bad in terms of viewpoints, culture, food, or customs; there were only differences. Three of the students said it was easier to understand the messages written by their classmates than those of foreign students. It was possible that their classmates’ language ability was better than that of the foreign students. It was also possible that due to cultural influences the way foreign students expressed themselves was different from that of their classmates. One student reflected that she felt the foreign students were hard working and had better and more profound views on global issues than her classmates. To sum up, they benefited a lot from this activity -- learning to respect, appreciate and accept others’ differences, they said.

Ten of them said being able to interact with foreigners and be understood made them feel it was a great success, giving them a sense of achievement that they had never had before. They thought it was a rewarding and enriching experience. In the future, they would like to participate in any similar online forum or conferencing. They were willing to recommend this program to those who have never experienced communicating with foreigners. 

Speaking of their favorite topic for discussion, none of them liked to discuss local plants, probably because they were business majors and were not familiar with any plants. Thirty-five out of 56 said that they preferred to discuss local culture and customs, especially their favorite local food. Eighteen participants preferred self-introductions, because as a result it was easier for them to make friends and share their common interests. Fourteen liked to watch the TED Talks and then discuss issues related to the topic. They said the talks were informative and the topics worth pondering. They needed to reflect on the key points mentioned and figure out how to deal with the raised problems. They learned to use different approaches or perspectives to look at the problems. They felt their interest in and attention to social issues were aroused, and more importantly, their critical thinking and reflective ability were strengthened. 

Unlike in traditional writing classes, they all agreed that such kind of on-line activity was stressful because everyone could read each other’s writing and make comparisons. They felt less pressure from their peers when they were required to do pencil-and-paper writing, because no one except the teacher would read the writing. However, pressure is not always a bad thing. Twenty of them said that because of peer pressure, they paid more attention to their writing. They spent more time generating, composing, reviewing and revising their writing. To be sure, such kind of positive learning attitudes can be expected to enhance learning outcomes.

Two participants said joining the online forum, they could communicate with foreigners without going abroad. Learning that many Japanese and Indonesians are interested in Taiwan and Taiwanese culture, they felt very proud to be living in a wonderful land. Idea sharing and exchanges broadened their global knowledge and viewpoints. They found that using English for communication was not the same as preparing for exams. Fluency and appropriate expressions played a more important role than accuracy. It was refreshing and rewarding to exchange ideas and viewpoints with foreigners online, they explained further.


Conclusion

The survey revealed that students had positive attitudes towards online cultural exchanges. More than three-quarters of the participants preferred to post and interact with foreign students. They said that they could surf the Net and look for information or vocabulary they did not know, as well as do the exercises anywhere, anytime as long as the Internet was available. In addition, they could revise their writing multiple times until they were satisfied with their work. Because every participant could read, comment on, or respond to each other’s messages. they concentrated more on synthesizing, composing and expressing ideas in a well-organized order. They experienced using English as a medium of communication instead of a subject learned at school. They became aware of cultural differences and similarities. After completing the task of posting messages online, they felt a great sense of achievement, something that they had seldom experienced in previous English classes. Above all, they learned to think critically and reflect more profoundly concerning social issues. 

In conclusion, this online cultural exchange program offered participants opportunities to learn about cultural diversity in a professional and ethical manner, by providing knowledge of, sensitivity to and respect for the values of others, and equally importantly, knowledge of and respect for their own values. With the advances in information technology, online communication makes it easier to provide practice opportunities and immediate feedback. It has great potential to foster students' interpersonal, communicative and presentation skills because of these enhanced learning opportunities for students to interact with peers. At the same time, it helps develop and build social relationships and mutual trust among online community members (Bulu & Yildirim, 2008), strengthens peer relationships and connectedness (Lee & Bonk, 2016), and reinforces student learning outcomes in a class-wide learning community.

Suggestions and Implications
Though the majority of participants had positive attitudes towards the online cultural exchange, there were still some who responded negatively. Five students said that the program was not user-friendly. They hoped that they could be notified in real-time if someone was on-line, typing a response to their messages. Ten said that their buddy never interacted with them. Even though they wrote to them, their buddies did not reply at all. If the buddy pair policy could be implemented in such a way that messages necessarily resulted in responses, the interaction between paired members might proceed more smoothly, leading to better results. Six said that the English proficiency of the participants varied greatly and some of them did not seem to trying very hard to write well. So they did not learn a lot from the exchange forum. One suggested that using more general-interest topics, mini-videos or movie clips for discussion would result in more interaction. These suggestions by the participants in this study will be taken into consideration for future improvement.

Prior to this study, the participants had learned how to write, but they seldom did it. At the start of their participation in the program, it appeared that being asked to write made them feel nervous and caused them stress. The atmosphere in the classroom was tense and unpleasant. During the first stage, most of them read existing posts first, looked for information online, and then composed a message within the framework provided by the posts and information. Gradually, however, they spent less time composing their ideas; they felt more at ease, more comfortable, while writing. The online interactive activity encouraged active participation on the part of the students. Because it was responsive, self-paced, and personalized practice, they gained more confidence and took more risks while writing in English. Most importantly, it helped keep records of individual progress.

Several pedagogical guidelines are suggested by the participants' feedback and perspectives. As we know, teaching involves mutual cooperation and interaction between teachers and students. As noted by Vaughan (2010), teacher presence plays an essential role in promoting a blended community of inquiry among online learners at the same time as it encourages “off-task talk” in online discussions. This leads to the recommendation that teachers be present in class to offer more guidance, support, and encouragement to assist students' learning process.

The data for this study were gathered from a group of Taiwanese students. The conclusions cannot be generalized. Future study will include Japanese and Indonesian participants to see if they have the same views as those of the Taiwanese participants. 


