Writing for Business Practices
> The structural difference between Chinese “Han” and English business letter     p. 15

  The structural differences between the Chinese “Han” and English business letter     p. 15

> Suggested Answer (It is suggested that you translate the information first, then rearrange it into an English letter based on the eight parts of a business letter.)

  Suggested Answer (It is suggested that you translate the information first, then try to fit that information into the format followed by English business letters with eight separate parts.)

> An English letter consists of eight parts, each of whom has its correspondent in Chinese “Han”, though it appears in different order. The correspondent between a Chinese “Han”(函) and an English business letter is summarized in the following table.

  An English letter consists of eight parts, each of which has its correspondent in the Chinese “Han”, though they appear in a different order. The corresponding parts of the Chinese “Han”(函) and English business letter are summarized in the following table.

Parts 
Chinese “Han”
English business letter
> 1. File number & length of  file keeping

  1. File number & archival expiry date

v
None
2. Return address
v
Contact person will not be stated here.
3. Date
After the recipient
Before the recipient
4. Inside address
No designated recipient, position, and address
Necessary
5. Reference No.
v
If necessary it is listed at the bottom below the signature or used as the Subject Line.
6. Urgency/ Confidentiality/ Enclosure
v
If necessary it is listed at the bottom below the signature.
7. Salutation
None
Necessary
8 Subject
A short paragraph
A noun or verb phrase
8. Explanations 
Listed in numbered order
Organized into paragraphs in the main body 
9. Complimentary closing
None
Necessary
9. Signature
> Stamped responsible person’s name and position

  The stamp of the issuer's signature and his/her position

> The responsible person should sign here

  The issuer will sign here

9. Typed name, position, company
None
Necessary
10. Other recipients
v
Unnecessary, but can be listed in CCs
10. CCs
v
Optional, but listed at the bottom

More detailed information concerning each part is explained as follows.
1. File number and length of keeping the file on the top left in Chinese “Han” is not stated in English letters.
2. Return address includes the contact information, such as company name, address, telephone number, fax number, email address, website, etc. However, the contact person will not appear here, but can be mentioned in the last paragraph of the main body. 
3. In an English letter, date comes before the inside address, right after the return address. However, in Chinese it appears after the recipient.
4. Complete inside address includes the responsible person, his/ her position, company/ organization, and address. However, in Chinese only the company/ organization name is mentioned. That is, the responsible person’s name, position and address are missing. It is also better to designate the person in charge of this issue instead of the company.
5. “Reference no.”, “Urgency”, “Confidentiality” and “Enclosure” appears at the top of “Han” following the date, but in an English letter, they should be listed at the bottom below the signature.
6. The salutation “Dear President xxx” is missing in “Han”.
7. The subject line is greatly different. In Chinese it says the purpose of this letter and tends to be a short paragraph, but in English it is usually presented as a noun phrase or verb phrase instead of a full sentence or a short paragraph. In English, reference number or order number can be used as the subject line. The subject line of Chinese “Han” can be stated in the first paragraph of the main body. 
8. “Explanations” will not be indicated as an individual part. They will be stated in the second or third paragraph of the main body. In other words, the “Subject” and “Explanations” will be reorganized as paragraphs, consisting of the main body of the letter. The contact person and related contact information can be mentioned in the last closing paragraph. 
9. “Complimentary closing” is missing because there is no salutation at the beginning of the “Han”. In Chinese “Signature and position” is stamped instead of signing. It is suggested that the signature be the person responsible for the issue, not the contact person. In this case, the minister of education should sign. The typed name, position and company/ organization is needed, too.
10. In English it is polite to send the letter to a designated person in the company/ organization separately, but in Chinese all the companies/ organizations receiving this letter will be listed at the bottom of the letter under the “other recipients” category. If necessary, all the recipients should be listed under CCs at the bottom.



Suggested letter
Ministry of Education
#5 Chung-shan S. Rd., Chung-cheng Dist., Taipei 100
Tel: 027736xxxx

7 June 2016

President xxx
National United University
#1 Lien-da, Kung-cheng Li
Miaoli 360

Subject: Higher Education #0990098134

Dear President xxx

To understand the status quo of internationalization and globalization in Taiwan’s universities and colleges, please fill out the enclosed survey. Complete all the required information, indicating “None” in the part without related information instead of leaving it blank.

The electronic file of the survey can be downloaded from the Webpage of Ministry of Education→ Divisions → Higher Education Bureau → Important Policy → University Globalization . If you have any further questions concerning how to fill out the survey, you can refer to the enclosed example or contact Ms. Hus-tz Jhaung at 02-7736xxx or htj@xxxxxx.

I would appreciate it if you could send the completed survey by July 30, 2017. Thank you very much for your cooperation in advance.

Sincerely

Wen-Chung Pang
Minister of Education, Taiwan

Enclosure
CCs: Higher Education Bureau
JW/htj

