Introduction to the series of studies I have conducted
Hsiao-fang Cheng

Globalization and internationalization in the context of economic and academic activity is a trend that is part of the reality of life in the 21st century (Altbach & Knight, 2007). To cope with the demands of the global academic environment, communicating with foreigners, focusing on meaning rather than form, has become increasingly critical. Effective communication involves the ability to make oneself understood in socially appropriate ways.

Because it focuses on meaning before form, all the studies listed as my main publications and in references were designed to explore different approaches to language teaching under the framework of Task-Based Language Teaching (TBLT). Since the 1980s, TBLT has enjoyed considerable interest from researchers of second language acquisition (SLA), resulting in a growing body of empirical evidence to support how, and to what extent, this approach can promote language learning. According to Larsen-Freeman (2000), TBLT means providing a natural context for relatively realistic language use, and focusing the learner’s attention on a real-world task, problem, activity, or topic, and not on a particular language point (Stern, 1992). It gives learners confidence in trying out whatever language they know, experience of interaction in the language, and the chance to benefit from noticing how others express similar meanings, eventually developing in learners the knowledge that they can achieve communication goals (Willis, 1996). 

According to Ellis (2003), a task is an activity or a work plan where the target language is used for realistic communication, focusing on meaning rather than forms. It provides the input and output processing necessary for language acquisition. Task-based instruction includes pre-task, during task and post-task stages (Ellis, 2003). During the pre-task phase, teachers introduce the topic and the task, help students understand instructions on what they have to do at the task stage and recall some language that may be useful for the task. During the task cycle, the students complete a task in pairs or groups using the language resources that they have as the teacher monitors and offers encouragement. Then, students need to prepare a short oral or written report to tell the class what happened during their task. The post-task phase focuses on analyzing, examining, and discussing the language students produced. Finally, the teacher selects language areas to practice based on the needs of the students and what emerged from the task and report phases. It is a strong communicative approach where students spend a lot of time communicating. It can be seen as a refinement of Communicative Language Teaching and a reaction to the use of the PPP lesson. 

In a task-based lesson the students are free of language control and learn by interacting. The teacher doesn't pre-determine what language will be studied. The language explored is determined by what happens as the students complete the task. Willis (1996) proposes six task types: listing, ordering and sorting, comparing, problem solving, sharing personal experiences, and creative tasks. Teachers have to select, adapt, and integrate the chosen tasks into an instructional sequence in keeping with learners’ needs, interests, and language skill level. 

Prabhu (1987) proposes that language teaching should be organized around the task as the unit in syllabus design and that interlanguage development will result through the meaningful use of language and the engagement of more naturalistic communicative processes. Foster and Skehan (1996) reported in their study that a narrative task generated the lowest level of accuracy, but the greatest amount of fluency. The link between during-task and post-task performance helps shift the fluency-accuracy balance and promotes the fluency, accuracy and complexity of learner’s production (Willis, 1990). However, the post-task requirement is often neglected. According to Ellis (2003) the post-task phase serves three major pedagogic goals: to provide an opportunity for a repeat performance of the task, to encourage reflection on how the task was performed, and to encourage attention to form. In other words, a post-task phase, whether required or just encouraged, may be expected to influence learners’ learning outcomes in the long term. 

The first main publication, “Effects of narrative approach in nature science” was designed to investigate the effects of narrative as a post-task activity on learning outcomes. Students needed to integrate newly-acquired information into their previous existing knowledge or personal experience, modify their misconceptions and finally express the result in both spoken and written form. The positive influence of narrative on language learning was detailed in the article, which is a study continuing on from the previous, “Effect of post-task activity on EFL writing performance”. (Please refer to referenced publication #6)

The second main publication was designed to investigate the effect of pre-task activities on learning outcomes in academic reading comprehension. According to Foster and Skehan (1996), a pre-task activity can raise the salience of formal elements, consciousness and intercultural awareness, and reduce cognitive load in the during-task phase. For college students, reading academic English textbooks in their own discipline is critical and mandatory. However, due to time constraints, most content teachers focus on the delivery of content rather than the language in the texts. To compensate for the lack of time available for academic English instruction, it is supposed that an online tutoring program could be a good solution to improving student’s academic English reading comprehension. The program was pre-recorded by both the content teacher, responsible for the content knowledge, and the English teacher, clarifying points related to the language. It could be accessed before or after the class. In theory, it was an excellent approach to help students master both the content knowledge and the language of their texts. This second main study was conducted to understand the ideal and the actual situation.

All the studies listed as references also focus on investigating the effects of various teaching methods, including integrating technology into teaching, interdisciplinary co-teaching, and English novel reading, on students’ learning outcomes in the respective areas. One of the studies investigated the effects of the Gradual Release of Responsibility Approach (GRRA) on language learning, a framework which was first introduced by Pearson and Gallagher in 1983. The GRRA requires a shift of responsibility from the teacher assuming all the duties required to perform a task to a situation in which students assume all of them (Duke & Pearson, 2008). According to Fisher and Frey (2013), the GRRA is at the intersection of several theories, including the theory of cognitive structures and schema, the zones of proximal development (Vygotsky, 1978), observational learning (Bandura, 1965), as well as scaffolded instruction (Wood, Bruner, Ross, 1976). The result indicated that most students preferred to practice with peers rather than with the teacher, reaffirming the importance of student-centered teaching. (Please see referenced publication #8)

The referenced publication #1, Writing for Business Practices, was designed drawing on the framework of TBLT and GRRA. All the activities are task-based, student-oriented, and can be presented following the four stages of GRRA: modeling, teacher-student interaction, peer discussion and independent work. 

In a word, all the studies I have conducted centered on the theoretical framework of TBLT to explore the effects of various teaching methodology. Based on the research results, some pedagogical implications were proposed, hoping to enhance students’ learning motivation and outcome.



References

Altbach, P. G., & Knight, J. (2007). The internationalization of higher education: Motivations and realities. Journal of Studies in International Education, 11 (3-4), 290-305.

Bandura, A., & Jeffery, R. W. (1973). Role of symbolic coding and rehearsal processes in observational learning. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 26(1), 122-130.

Duke, N. K., & Pearson, P. D. (2008). Effective practices for developing reading comprehension. The Journal of Education, 189(1/2), 107-122.


Ellis, R. (2003). Task-based language learning and teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 

Fisher, D., & Frey, N. (2013). Better learning through structured teaching: A framework for the gradual release of responsibility. Alexandria: ASCD.

Foster, P., & Skehan, P. (1996). The influence of planning and task type on second language performance. Studies in Second language acquisition, 18(03), 299-323.

Larsen-Freeman, D. (2000). Techniques and principles in language teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Prabhu, N.C. (1987). Second language pedagogy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Stern, H. H. (1992). Issues and Options in Language Teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Vygotsky, L.S. (1978). Mind in society: The Development of Higher Psychological Processes. (M. Cole, V. John-Steiner, S. Scribner, & E. Souberman. Eds.) Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Willis, D. (1990). The Lexical Syllabus. London: Collins.

WILLIS, J. (1996). A flexible framework for task-based learning. Challenge and change in language teaching, 52-62.

Wood, D., Bruner, J.S., &Ross, G. (1976). The role of tutoring in problem-solving. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 17, 89-100.
