The Hakka Affairs Council is working hard to provide counseling and assistance services to characteristic Hakka companies. Celebrating the tenth anniversary of the plan, the Council has adopted the core strategy of “industrializing Hakka culture, culturalizing Hakka industry” and is propelling 500 companies with signifcant Hakka products to front stage, with them establishing an excellent brand image for Hakka TAIWAN, and marketing and promoting over 800 excellent Hakka products with major domestic and overseas distributors. Not only is the Council spreading Hakka cultural beauty and strength globally, it is also showing the world the brightest new spots in Hakka industry. 

This year’s plan features three major categories: “Product Package Design,” “Service and Experiential Space Renovation,” and “Product Quality and Technical Upgrade.” This marks the first time that the Council has provided assistance in the “Product Quality and Technical Upgrade” area, helping 9 companies with great potential. By assisting the companies with new patent and technical development, improvement of production processes, enhancement of production, and obtaining of international food safety certification, the Council hopes to inject new energy into Hakka industry, rocketing it onto the global stage, and showcasing Hakka soft power. Also, nine other companies have been selected for participation in the “Service and Experiential Space Renovation” plan. Focusing on the resources of place, space, service path, and experiential activity, the Council will help the companies to refine and redefine their core values and their characteristic Hakka products and further nurture Hakka culture, ratcheting up the achievements of Hakka industry in Taiwan. 

The accomplishments of this year’s plan fully display the spirit of “Hakka Innovation.” Over 150 cases of creative Hakka TAIWAN souvenirs, unique Hakka services and experiential attractions, and important technical upgrades are collected in this catalogue, allowing everyone to see the richness of Hakka culture exhibited in all aspects of life. At the same time, of course, this catalogue will serve as a wonderful reference when selecting presents and gifts for holidays and special events and when looking for partners for technical collaboration and exchanges. 

The Council is introducing the tri-part Hakka mission statement, “Seeing Hakka, Innovating Hakka, Sustaining Hakka,” and will adopt more advanced methods in the future to integrate characteristic supply chains used in the Hakka business sector, providing services for interdisciplinary industrial innovation cluster development and value-added services in ICT. We will continue fostering Hakka industry to achieve sustainable productivity. We will also continue to reinvent and create diversity in the industry, inviting the younger generation to showcase innovation and creativity skills that will jointly “Sustain Hakka.”

