The name, "Heartfelt Planted Tea" has the implicit meaning of planting with the wholehearted intention of not running counter to the original purpose of tea. And with the tea leaves being freshly picked in harmony with nature, the idea is conveyed that they are hand picked in season. Drawing on both the exceptional advantage the tea leaves enjoy by being planted and growing in a unique environment, and the mutual interweaving between the power of nature and the Hakka spirit, it is the hope that this organic black tea from Wu Cheng Village located in Yu Chi Township in Nantou County, with its glistening crimson color and luster and rich black tea aroma, will ease the hectic pace of daily life and bring warmth and vitality to the living.

The name, "Heartfelt Planted" fine tea comes from the idea of planting and cultivating tea with the wholehearted intention of adopting pesticide-free agricultural methods that involve only minimal intervention with the land and that allow symbiotic growth of the tea with the natural environment. Despite the many hardships and difficult challenges this implies, only by allowing the land to return to its original healthy state can you nurture a healthy tea that provides a robust flavor. "Heartfelt Planted" evokes good, spirited feelings with teas that are healthy and full of flavor, which are painstakingly grown but provide contented happiness! Share these teas with friends to encourage them to strive to fulfill their every dream.

"Toasting guests with tea; receiving friends with tea; presenting tea as a gift; and chatting with tea" are events in the thread of life of Hakka people, as well as an important symbolic representation of Hakka culture. Innovative tea snacks have been developed in response to new eating patterns, and include the tea snack - "Classic Black Tea Nougat." When eating this nougat while drinking tea, you are able to better appreciate the cultural and creative tone and savor the taste of home of the Hakka people.

With agricultural management that believes in minimal intervention and cultivation methods that are most respectful of nature, without the use of pesticides or insecticides, the deep love of Wan Da Natural Agricultural Methods Trading Company for nature allows symbiotic growth of tea with the natural environment. Although, since its beginnings, the company has gone through real hardships, it abides by its original intention developing the most healthy and natural fine teas - the sharing of tea with friends.

Wu Cheng Village of Yu Chi Township is located in Nantou County, and due to its geographical location, 600 to 700 meters above sea level, with an average humidity of 81.2% and a year round average temperature of 25 degrees, it provides the most suitable environment for growing black tea. Organic black tea from Wu Cheng Village is a healthy product nurtured by the natural environment.
