"Welcoming Peanuts" selects and uses Taiwan Premium Peanuts No. 9 planted and grown in the Fenglin area of Hualien. The nuts are round and full, crunchy and tasty, and replete with a mouth-watering fragrance. The skin is removed from the peanuts and they are stir fried together with hot peppers, chilies, and a variety of meticulously developed spices. The resulting peanuts have an original taste that is "spicy but not peppery hot, crispy but not oily." And because of their strong spicy flavor, after people have eaten these peanuts, they lick their fingers to savor the aftertaste and experience an irresistible desire to eat one more last one!

Dragon Roasted Kung Fu Tea is produced using an ancient production process that has been handed down through the generations from father to son. The process involves Dong Ding oolong tea leaves being roasted with a slow fire using longan wood. The tea has distinctive characteristics including a fragrant bouquet and mellow taste; moreover, the tea leaves can be infused many times and can be stored for long periods of time, keeping an aroma no machine can reproduce. The tea leaves undergo a deeper fermentation process that produces a darker colored, bright orange tea drink. When smelled, a refreshing fragrance strikes the nose. When sipped, a mouth-watering sensation arises on the palate. When swallowed, a moistening sweet aftertaste is experienced as it enters the throat. Last, there is a charcoal roast taste that lingers without end!

Using pineapples specially selected from the Neipu area of Pingtung, the fresh pineapple fruit is first cut into angled pieces and heated. Special attention is paid to the cutting process, and traditional ideas about Hakka pickling production methods are overturned by instead subjecting the pineapple pieces to an interactive cyclic baking process that involves cold blasts of air at a low temperature of minus 40 degrees. This process retains the elasticity of the pineapple fruit flesh, and locks in the flavor of the fresh fruit. Therefore, using this unique technology enables the company to produce high-fiber health foods and create a new generation of Hakka flavors.
