"Small Preserved Vegetables Meatballs" are produced using local preserved vegetables sourced from Gong Guan Township, which are combined with ground meat consisting of a mixture in the right proportion of lean and fatty meat, and then pickled using traditional Hakka methods. The size of the meatball has been improved to form a one bite size while retaining the original Hakka flavor to introduce new and creative ways to eat meatballs.

The origin of "Hakka stir-fried dishes" lies in the Hakka tradition of needing to preparing three animals for sacrifice to express thanks with animal offerings to the Earth God and to take care of their ancestors. The animals generally used for sacrifice included squid and pigs. The taste and ingredients of the Hakka stir-fried dishes vary to some extent according to region. The Hakka stir-fried dishes produced by Full of Love Noodle Shop have the flavorsome taste local to Gong Guan Township in Miaoli.

"Hakka Salted Pork" is a dish prepared by Hakka ethnic groups in earlier times for offerings to gods or ancestral ritual celebration purposes on New Year's Day or other festivals. In order to extend its storage life, salt is used to pickle the pork. The pork used is specially selected streaky pork with the skin left on, and after pickling the pork is baked in an oven. This production process differs from the general store which adopts a method whereby the pork is first steamed and then deep fried, and lessens the burden which this method puts on the physical body.

"Hakka slow-braised pork belly" is also known as “Hakka Small Feng Meat,” with a production process involving "Slow fire, little water, an appetizing meal in itself when the heating control is complete." Full of Love Noodle Shop follows the traditional practice of previous generations to cook this succulent and appetizing dish with the special local Hakka flavor. Black pork cuts are specially selected, garlic, soy sauce, rice wine, and a little rock sugar are then added and the dish is simmered until the pork is soft.
