Supporting the hardworking, sincere, and honest spirit of the Hakka people, Hanyow Studio uses earthen jars to adhere to the ancient method of fermenting and aging red yeast rice. Natural ingredients including natural pollution-free fruits, flowers, and honey are carefully selected and then soaked for a long period of time to ferment and produce the unique flavored red yeast rice vinegar. This vinegar addresses the demand for healthy foods, and promotes the spirit and essence of Hakka cuisine, allowing you to enjoy a sweet blissful taste you will never get tired of.

As the old saying goes, "Magnolia with a fragrance carried on the wind for three miles. Sweet Osmanthus with a fragrance that can be smelt for ten miles with no wind," the sweet osmanthus bashfully hides behind green leaves, dainty and seemingly insignificant. However, the fragrance from the delicate and heavily scented flowers floats in the air for ten miles. In a similar fashion, the subtle sincerity and honest personality of the Hakka people is widely known as they quietly plough and weed their fields. Hanyow Studio carefully selects its perfectly safe raw materials, and adheres to the ancient method of fermentation using earthen jars to produce its Sweet Osmanthus Vinegar. This vinegar has a taste that is light and elegant, and is sweet and easy on the palate, with an aftertaste that recalls the pure and simple living of earlier times, allowing you to enjoy the simple pleasures of life.

Memories of sitting under a banyan tree savoring the refreshing and refined taste of plum vinegar - a simple blissful taste! Hanyow Studio uses simple raw ingredients, and follows the ancient method of using earthen jars to ferment the plums over a long period of time to produce a flavor that is warm, smooth, and strong and that carries a meticulously mellow sweet component. It is a natural, mellow, healthy vinegar with active ingredients, and is a health-preserving vinegar that can be served as an appetizer or drunk to cleanse the palate from the oily aftertaste after meals.

